And first up,
she is a Grammy winner,
and a two-time
Emmy-winning comedian,
and an actress who holds
the Guinness record
for most comedy specials
by a woman.
More importantly,
she is a good American
who loves her country
and should be able
to work in it, Kathy Griffin!
(APPLAUSE)
-BILL: See, told ya!
-I was afraid, I was afraid.
-I was afraid.
-There you go.
-Look at this. Let's do this.
-All right.
How you doin--
I love your new do!
-I did, I cut my hair very,
very short.
-Yes.
We're all shaving our heads now,
the pissed-off women,
we're angry,
we're shaving our heads.
Just for fun.
To scare you guys.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
Bill, first of all,
I really wanna thank you
for being one of the first
and only people
to publicly support me, and say
what happened was bullshit.
-(AUDIENCE CHEERS, APPLAUDS)
-It was bullshit.
Yeah.
-Publicly.
-Well, yeah, and--
Public-- 'Cause I got texts
from some celebrities
that were like,
"Um, don't tell anybody
I sent you this text,
but I support you all the way,
-I love you."
-(BILL LAUGHS)
-Jerry Seinfeld.
-(AUDIENCE GROANS)
-No, I'm kidding. I'm kid--
-Oh, no!
-No, I'm kidding, I'm kidding.
-Oh! (LAUGHS)
As if-- By the way, as if
we have each other's numbers,
me and Jerry Seinfeld.
But go ahead.
Exactly,
I happen to know they don't.
(LAUGHING)
Well, we've missed you.
You know, I mean... It's true.
-(AUDIENCE CHEERS, APPLAUDS)
-Oh, my goodness.
I-- Uh-- One thing nobody
could ever take away from you,
you are a hard worker.
-I love it, man, love it.
-You...
You got where you are
through hard work.
-You, joke-by-joke...
-One dick joke at a time, baby!
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
-I never had a writer,
I never had a studio,
I never had a manager,
just out grinding it out,
and that's what I love doing.
-So, for you to have it
all taken away--
-Overnight.
It just really pissed me off
more than anything,
because, I mean, look,
you took a picture--
-you took a very bad selfie.
-(LAUGHING)
I blame the photographer,
I've been on these photoshoots
and they're always trying
to do something provocative,
-Right.
-so they said, "Hey,
-why don't you pose--"
-The wacky picture!
The wacky picture,
and it turned out to be
a little too wacky.
It was quite wacky.
Okay, it was very wacky,
and, uh, but, you know,
if this wasn't
the United States of babies,
you know, you woulda--
The first thing you said was,
"Look, I went too far,
I get it,"
it should've been over.
Okay, there, she gets it. Fine.
But of course,
everybody has to go
bat-shit nuts about everything,
all the time.
-Oh, yeah. Yeah.
-And--
Actually, the selfie analogy
is really good,
because almost like,
imagine if you took--
You had the worst selfie
in the world,
you went to bed, and you woke up
and you found out that
the President tweeted about it,
which then mobilized
the alt-right, Fox News,
-Right.
-everybody else, and then,
-you know, they also thought
it was illegal, which...
-BILL: And also--
-BILL: Right, I mean--
-Distasteful, but not illegal.
Covered by the first amendment.
-No, I went through...
-(APPLAUSE)
While we still have one.
I mean, I went through
something like this.
Yours is worse because you
were actually interrogated,
you were detained--
Two month federal investigation
by two, um,
departments from the DOJ,
Department of Justice.
-(AUDIENCE MOANS)
-Right.
I mean, after 9/11 I had this
on my wall for a while,
the Variety headline that says,
you know,
"White House keeps heat
on ABC's Maher."
KATHY: I remember it very well.
BILL: Yeah, okay, so--
And it was bad,
Ari Fleischer was talking
about me
in the press conference
every day.
But you had it far worse
because you literally had
your livelihood
taken away from you,
-Yeah.
-My show kept going,
uh, our ratings never dropped...
I even had my-- Um,
I was in the middle
of a fifty-city tour,
and I had like 25 dates
up until the following February,
'cause this happened
on May 30th,
TMZ was reporting
my show cancellations
in real time which scared,
I think, the theaters.
So these theaters,
which I don't blame,
because all of a sudden,
you know,
normally they do like,
Stomp, or Mama Mia!,
and all of a sudden,
they're getting robocalls
from like, a bot farm
in Macedonia going,
"If I see that bitch on stage
I'm gonna cut her in the cunt,
chop her head off,
and put her head up her cunt."
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
-That was-- No joke,
that was the number one reason
that the, um,
folks who are angry,
want to kill me.
That's the number one procedure
they wanna do.
-Moving on... (CHUCKLES)
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
-Yeah, it was ugly, and...
-Yeah. Yeah.
and I mean, but...
It really got outta hand,
I think, when the official
security apparatus
of the United States of America,
which you'd think
would have something better
to do,
and I am sure knew better,
than you were somehow
a threat to the president...
-Well, they--
-...interrogated you, I mean,
flying is still a problem
for you, is it not?
-Yeah, I...
-I mean, you were on the D-List,
-now you're on the no-fly list.
-(LAUGHING)
-The D-List is much better.
D-List is much better.
-BILL: Yeah, way better.
Um, yeah, I'm on
the Interpol list and so,
when I couldn't get work here
after that...
-BILL: The Interpol?
-Yeah.
-For international criminals?
So, I did an overseas tour,
I did 15 countries and 23 cities
and I was detained
at every single airport,
which is frightening,
because they scan your passport,
they see-- And by the way,
this is really scary
when you're at
the Singapore airport,
and you see the person
go like this...
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
-And then there's like,
whispering, and then they put me
in, like, a detention room,
and you don't know
how long it's gonna take,
and I'm thinking, you know,
"I got-- 'Scuse me,
I have an eight o' clock show
I gotta make soccer moms
-and gay guys laugh. Let's go."
-Right.
(AUDIENCE CHEERS, APPLAUDS)
But in all seriousness,
there were times
when they took my devices,
they can do that,
and you might think, you know,
we all have our rights,
but when you're in that moment,
you're really at the mercy
of one or two people
in that room.
So, it happened at LAX,
it happened at London, Heathrow,
um, and it's scary every time
'cause you don't quite know
what it is.
So, if you had to do it
all over again, I mean,
I assume you wouldn't
take the picture,
but... (CHUCKLES)
I'd do Mike Pence.
No, I'm kidding, I'm kidding.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
-(BILL CHUCKLES)
(CHEERING)
(APPLAUSE)
Ten months I waited
to do that joke, ten months.
Okay, um,
but would you do anything over?
Uh, the way it was--
The aftermath of it?
Oh yeah, I mean, everything
about the aftermath was,
you know, it truly is
a historic situation,
so one of the things
I like doing--
About touring is, as you know,
you're on stage
and you can really
tell your story
without censorship and stuff,
so, the current show I'm doing
actually does have, like,
a couple serious moments in it
because when I describe
the interrogation,
you could hear a pin drop,
you know what I mean?
Like I said, I've just done
23 cities in 15 countries,
and the intensity
of those moments,
when my first amendment attorney
said to me, you know,
"If this doesn't go well
you'll leave here in handcuffs."
And the DOJ called my attorneys
every single day for two months,
"Did she come in yet?
Did she come in yet?"
Every day they called
and said we can do a--
It's called a No-Knock,
which is what they did
to Paul Manafort
-Sure.
-No knock, come in.
You know, and I'd be like,
"Fine, come on in,
we can take my Backstreet Boys
CDs," you know.
So, it was crazy,
but that's how crazy it was.
So I was determined to not do,
like, a perp walk,
so it cost me a lot of money
of course,
but at least
we were able to negotiate
the interrogation happening
in my attorney's office.
But, you know, just being told
you could leave in cuffs.
-Yeah.
-You know, it came straight
from the DOJ
and the White House.
-So, uh...
-And that's the--
That's the administration
that we have now.
So that's what I am here
to talk about, is,
I really believe that
it happened to me,
and I really believe
it could happen to you
and other people,
or people's kids or relatives.
It could happen,
it's gotten crazy.
-Well, I-- We're not gonna...
-(AUDIENCE APPLAUDS)
(CHUCKLES)
...hopefully take that picture.
But I do believe
what you're saying in general
is correct,
everything that was unthinkable
two years ago, is thinkable now:
dictatorship, fascism.
All those kinds of things,
-uh, so, I don't think...
-ICE deportations are going...
-BILL: Nuclear war,
-Yeah.
-nothing is off the table.
-Correct.
Okay, so, do you think--
I know some friendships were...
-casualties in this.
-I'm down to three gay guys.
-(LAUGHTER)
-And you. And you.
But I hear you're fluid,
I hear you're fluid.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
-Which is very trendy.
Very trendy, Bill,
very hot, sells tickets.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS, APPLAUDS)
Um, I'm just gonna play
straight man today, I...
-So, uh...
-Oh, and I got canned from CNN
which sucked because
I was never a CNN employee,
I only worked there
one night a week,
but they made like this
sweeping statement,
-and you know...
-Well I was gonna say--
Don Jr. was like--
Of all people, like, Don Jr.,
that freakin' cro-mag, like...
-Right.
-...barely human,
whatever his deal is.
-Right. (CHUCKLES)
-He goes on, like,
Good Morning America
and says, "We don't just wanna
ruin Kathy Griffin's career,
we wanna decimate her."
And that was like,
months after the photo, so...
-But do you thi--
-I'm not decimated.
Right. No, you're not.
You look very strong.
(AUDIENCE CHEERS, APPLAUDS)
(BILL LAUGHS)
I-- I mean, we need comedians,
I mean, I know that sounds
like a pat on the back
'cause I'm one of them,
but what we really do,
-especially in this era,
-Yeah.
and any era, to sometimes
go over the line...
-Yes!
-...so we know where
the lines are.
-Of course.
-And also to establish
that we do live in a country
with free speech, that was--
As distasteful
as it might have been
to a lot of people,
-it was free speech.
-Yes!
And free speech is still
kind of important
and I'd like to defend it.
It's important
and also the alt-right
has kind of co-opted it, like...
-Right.
-...you know, a speech
at Berkeley
and somebody
knocks over a garbage can,
sets it on fire
and if it's an alt-right person
they'll say it's free speech
but they kinda co-opted that,
but you know, you and I
do the kind of comedy
that pushes boundaries
and to do that
you have to move them,
and then cross them,
and push them again,
and see what works.
And I'm finding, like,
I know you're on the road
as well,
I'm finding that people
are wanting that kind of comedy.
-We're in such an intense time,
-Oh. So thirsty, yes.
people don't want
dog and cat jokes.
-No, they-- I mean--
-You know, so...
-They definitely...
-They want the real deal.
And they want to be very mean
to Donald Trump,
and I can do that,
I can do that.
-(AUDIENCE CHEERS)
-You can do that, too, so...
I'm definitely trying.
I do have, by the way,
I have a small,
victorious announcement.
-Okay. All right.
-Small. Okay.
So I'm dipping my toes
into touring again,
even though the Trumps,
nobody wants me to work again,
but I'm dipping my toes in
and, um, I just booked today,
I'm gonna do a show
at Carnegie Hall in New York...
And...
-(AUDIENCE CHEERS)
-BILL: I've heard of it.
And I'm also gonna go
right to Trump's back yard
and do a show
at the Kennedy Center.
-(AUDIENCE CHEERING)
-BILL: All right.
Kathy Griffin! Triumphant!